# water_tank_model
This is an MATLAB programming project from the University of Waterloo's CS371/AMATH242 that involved predicting the amount of time necessary for water to fill a uniquely shaped tank. 

The description of the problem is as follows: 
A water tank has shape shown in Figure 1. Water is delivered to this tank through the bottom. Water delivery rate is defined by a function V(t)=3t+2t^2 +cos(4t)*exp(−t/4)−1, such that V (0) = 0 (here V (t) denotes the volume of water delivered to the system by the time t). In this assignment, you will simulate the process of filling up this tank. There are several reasonable questions to answer:
- At what time water will reach the top of the tank?
- At what time water reaches particular level? 
- and so on.
 
You will develop MATLAB code that helps to answer this and similar questions. Your MATLAB code will have to have a function named solver that solves numerically an equation using Newton's method. Function solver will take an equation to be solved, interval, and tolerance as arguments and return smallest solution of the equation on specified interval. This function will be used several times in order to provide answers to above mentioned or similar questions. Your code should first find and print times TA,TB,TC and TD when water reaches the levels A,B,C and D (top of the tank). After this, calculate and plot dependency t(h) where h is the height of water level 0 ≤ h ≤ 2r1 +l1 +l2 +r2, and t(h) is time when water reaches level h. For this, Set H = 2r1 + l1 + l2 + r2 , divide interval [0,H] into N equal subintervals and compute t(hi ), where hi=i(N/H), i=0,1,...,N, and t(hi) is the earliest time when the water level reaches the height hi. Your code must have a function named simulate that takes tank parameters r1, l1, l2, r2, integer value N and tolerance as arguments and produces necessary for plotting data along with the plot.

Other notes:
The actual look of the water tank is described in an image; I have uploaded a screenshot of this image. The last mlx file is a summary of the results of the model as generated by solver.m and simulate.m.
